README.md, before:

# Time-tracker plasmoid

A plasma widget for tracking time spent on your various tasks.

This lives in your panel, and on right-click shows a list of task
names with time already logged, and a text field for creating an entry
with a new task name. Clicking a task name or the button next to it
starts the task if it is not the current task, switching from any
previous task. Otherwise, it stops the task.

The plasmoid can detect a session's idle time, and will prompt the
user on return weather to keep or discard the idle time time on the
current task.

State changes are written to a log file which can be used to generate
reports.

## Install

Before installing/upgrading, you need to restart plasmashell, because it caches QML files:

    killall plasmashell; kstart5 plasmashell

Then to install the first time:

    kpackagetool5 -t Plasma/Applet -i package

To upgrade:

    kpackagetool5 -t Plasma/Applet -u package

To remove:

    kpackagetool5 -t Plasma/Applet -r package

## Test

For testing/development, you need plasmoidviewer:

    sudo apt install plasma-sdk

Then for a minimised view:

    plasmoidviewer --applet package --containment org.kde.panel  -l bottomedge -s 800x100

For a maximised view:

    plasmoidviewer --applet package

## Log format

The log file is a tab-delimited data file. It has no headers, but the
fields are named as follows:

    version    action    prevtime    time    parameters...


version,action,prevtime,time,parameters

Tab and new-line characters are delimiters and so cannot be present
literally in field data. Instead they should be escaped with the
values `\t` and `\n` respectively.

The fields function are as follows. The version field indicating the
semantics to expect in the other fields, which can vary between
versions. Typically a logfile will not contain more than one version,
and the plasmoid will only support one version.

- version: a hexadecimal schema version number for this log entry, 

### Version 1

The other fields include:

- `action`, one of:
  - `init`: the widget has started
  - `start`: start working on the current task
  - `stop`: stop working on the current task
  - `mark`: continue working on the current task (emitted periodically)
  - `switch`: change the current task
- `prevtime`: the timestamp of the previous log entry (an integrity
  check), may be empty on `init` entries
- `time`: the timestamp of this log entry - must be at or after `prevtime`, unless
  this entry is a `mark` or a `stop` stubtracting idle time
- `parameters`: zero or more fields which are optional parameters of this entry
  - for `switch`:
    - `name`: the name of the new task
  - for `mark`: 
    - `reason`: an informational field which indicates why the mark was
      added
	  - none: just a periodic mark
	  - `idle-alert`: in response to an idle alert appearing
	  - `idle-continue`: the user has opted to keep the idle time and continue
	  - `idle-discard`: the user has opted to discard the idle time and continue
  - for `stop`:
    - `reason`:  an informational field which indicates why the stop was added
	  - none: the user clicked stop
	  - `idle-stop`: the user has opted to discard idle time and stop

Commit message:

README.md - add comment about qmlcache folder

README.md, after:

# Time-tracker plasmoid

A plasma widget for tracking time spent on your various tasks.

This lives in your panel, and on right-click shows a list of task
names with time already logged, and a text field for creating an entry
with a new task name. Clicking a task name or the button next to it
starts the task if it is not the current task, switching from any
previous task. Otherwise, it stops the task.

The plasmoid can detect a session's idle time, and will prompt the
user on return weather to keep or discard the idle time time on the
current task.

State changes are written to a log file which can be used to generate
reports.

## Install

Before installing/upgrading, you need to restart plasmashell, because it caches QML files:

    killall plasmashell; kstart5 plasmashell

In my experience this doesn't always end happily, so you may need to
restart your session anyway.  You might try removing the contents of
`~/.cache/plasmashell/qmlcache/`, but at your own risk.

Then to install the first time:

    kpackagetool5 -t Plasma/Applet -i package

To upgrade:

    kpackagetool5 -t Plasma/Applet -u package

To remove:

    kpackagetool5 -t Plasma/Applet -r package

## Test

For testing/development, you need plasmoidviewer:

    sudo apt install plasma-sdk

Then for a minimised view:

    plasmoidviewer --applet package --containment org.kde.panel  -l bottomedge -s 800x100

For a maximised view:

    plasmoidviewer --applet package

## Log format

The log file is a tab-delimited data file. It has no headers, but the
fields are named as follows:

    version    action    prevtime    time    parameters...


version,action,prevtime,time,parameters

Tab and new-line characters are delimiters and so cannot be present
literally in field data. Instead they should be escaped with the
values `\t` and `\n` respectively.

The fields function are as follows. The version field indicating the
semantics to expect in the other fields, which can vary between
versions. Typically a logfile will not contain more than one version,
and the plasmoid will only support one version.

- version: a hexadecimal schema version number for this log entry, 

### Version 1

The other fields include:

- `action`, one of:
  - `init`: the widget has started
  - `start`: start working on the current task
  - `stop`: stop working on the current task
  - `mark`: continue working on the current task (emitted periodically)
  - `switch`: change the current task
- `prevtime`: the timestamp of the previous log entry (an integrity
  check), may be empty on `init` entries
- `time`: the timestamp of this log entry - must be at or after `prevtime`, unless
  this entry is a `mark` or a `stop` stubtracting idle time
- `parameters`: zero or more fields which are optional parameters of this entry
  - for `switch`:
    - `name`: the name of the new task
  - for `mark`: 
    - `reason`: an informational field which indicates why the mark was
      added
	  - none: just a periodic mark
	  - `idle-alert`: in response to an idle alert appearing
	  - `idle-continue`: the user has opted to keep the idle time and continue
	  - `idle-discard`: the user has opted to discard the idle time and continue
  - for `stop`:
    - `reason`:  an informational field which indicates why the stop was added
	  - none: the user clicked stop
	  - `idle-stop`: the user has opted to discard idle time and stop
